\section{Non-Cooperative Multi-Agent Pathfinding}
\label{selfInterested}

Multi-agent pathfinding has been typically studied in cooperative settings and algorithms were developed under the assumption that there is a centralized planning mechanism. The computation of the algorithm might be distributed between the agents, but it is assumed that all agents aim to minimize the total cost for all agents. This assumption does not hold if agents are \emph{self-interested}. For example, scenarios with robots of different companies that share a common area or driver-less cars might have diverging interests, but would still need to coordinate to avoid collisions. 

The auction mechanism can naturally be applied to non-cooperative settings. Agents submit bids based on their own interests and they do not necessarily need to have the same budget or have information about the other agents. For this non-cooperative setting, we assume the entity that controls the resources and the auction has the ability to enforce compliance with the paths that were allocated in the auction. That is, agents cannot choose a path that was not sold to them. This can be achieved by penalizing non-compliant agents. % making it non-beneficial for agents.

In designing mechanisms for coordinating self-interested agents {\em strategy-proofness} is a desired property. That is, we would like a mechanism that operates in such a way that agents' best strategy is to report their true preferences and not try to manipulate the outcomes. For example, if an agent participating in an auction somehow knows that the auction will not end in the next couple of rounds, it can start bidding on its bundles at a later round to prevent their prices from going up (``slow-bidding''). Such manipulations can lead to non-optimal outcomes. 

If an iBundle terminates with the Vickry payments (i.e., agents pay according to the decrease in utility they cause to other agents) ***add citation** then truthful myopic best response is the optimal strategy for a participating agent~\cite{parkes2001iterative}. While it has been shown that iBundle terminates with the vickrey payments in many settings, it is not generally guaranteed to implement the vickrey outcome. An extension of the mechanism, called iBundle Extend \& Adjust does terminate with the vickrey outcome by introducing proxy bidding agents that adjust prices after the final allocation is determined~\cite{parkes2001iterative}. This extended mechanism can be implemented in the pathfinding domain similarly to the basic iBundle auction, resulting in strong strategy-proofness properties. 
\note{Ofra}{if there's time I'll write code that checks if it's the Vickrey payments to have a stronger hypothesis here} 

Theoretically, the existing algorithms for MAPF could also be applied in the presence of self-interested agents. However, in this context existing algorithms have significant limitations. Algorithms such as $A^*$ and its variants can be viewed as querying the agent only once, asking agents to report their complete preferences. These preferences need to include agents' locations, goals and coasts. For example, if agents have  complex preferences such as different costs for different locations or multiple goals, agents will need to report all this information to the central mechanism running the algorithm. Thus, using these algorithms will not maintain agents' privacy. It is also not robust to manipulations (e.g., agents can possibly report their preferences untruthfully to obtain a better path).

ICTS and CBS are more similar to an iterative auction mechanism and can be viewed as having multiple interactions with agents to elicit their preferences incrementally as needed. In CBS, each of the child nodes of a conflicting node can be viewed as increasing the price of the conflicting location to infinity for one of the agents and querying it for its new preferred paths. In contrast with ascending price auctions, the conflict tree is expanded in a best-first manner prices will be raised and lowered during this process. This mechanism, however, can also be manipulated. For example, when prices are increased for an agent, it might report its new paths untruthfully to create more conflicts and cause the auctioneer to choose an allocation that is better for that agent.

ICTS can be viewed as an ascending price auction where at each iteration the prices are increased to all agents (corresponding to a level in the ICT). Then it is possible to think of a price adjustment mechanism based on the actual solution is found. Like CBS, this mechanism does not have proven strategy-proofness properties and seems to be prone to  manipulations. For example, agents might report only a subset of their paths such that a solution will not be found when increasing costs to their paths, possibly resulting in a solution that is better for them but has a lower social welfare. 
 
To the best of our knowledge, the only mechanism proposed for non-cooperative pathfinding is the Iterative Taxation Framework (ITF) by Bnaya et al.~\cite{bnaya2013multi}. This mechanism assigns ``taxes'' to pairs of location and time, driving agents to follow paths with higher-social welfare. In contrast, the auction mechanism sells paths to agents. In terms of mechanism properties, the auction two key advantages: (1) It results in an optimal allocation of paths, and (2) In contrast with ITF, the operator of the mechanism  does not require knowledge about agents' locations or goals. This leads to stronger strategy-proofness properties (in ITF agents can potentially misreport their locations and goals to affect taxation).


